# Text extraction of https://www.sams-xrays.com/smak-basics, retrieved 2026-09-16 via fetch-and-extract (raw HTML not retrievable from build host). Re-hash from raw HTML at registration.
Deadtime is essentially oversaturation of the detector.
It occurs when the number of incoming photons exceeds the ability of the detector to count; that is, the incoming count rate (ICR) is greater than the outgoing count rate (OCR).
We VERY rarely do deadtime corrections on data collected at the micro-imaging beamlines at SSRL because our detectors are linear to very high count rates (ICR > 3 million counts per second).
You can tell if you are in the deadtime regime by looking at OCR vs. ICR in the correlation plotter.
If there is curvature to this line, then the detector is being saturated and you should do a deadtime correction.
Plot OCR (y-axis) vs. ICR (x-axis) in the correlation plotter
Under the "Analysis" drop down manu, select "Do ICR-OCR Deadtime".
This fits a function to the data, and you will see a numerical value for "DEADTIME" displayed at the bottom left of the correlation window.
This value is "tau".
Under the "Process"menu in the main SMAK window, there is an option for "Deadtime".
This opens a new window where you can enter a value for tau.
SMAK automatically loads the fitted value from the correlation plotter.
Check the box that says "Do DT correction?" and press "ok".
Drag the "Filter Size" slider to 5.
Drag the "Std. Dev." slider to 0.8.
"Blur" takes a Gaussian distribution of the area.
Enter "0.0000125".
This is due to the scanning signal processing electronics and is recorded in the TIME channel.
The artifacts can be removed by normalizing your data to the TIME channel.
Load you first data file (e.g. 12 KeV map), then import the channel you want to align from your second data file (e.g. 7 KeV map)
Select 'Stack Alignment'
SMAK will now align the selected channels and make a new channel with '-stack1' appended to the end of the name
Very broadly, component 1 is using a proxy for concentration as concentration is the greatest variable in your data.
